README.md, before:

timer – a Pomodoro/Interval Timer 
==================================

**timer** is a command line interval timer written in Bash.

### Features

* Calming, serene alert tone inspired by Buddhist meditation bells
* Set a simple countdown, or specify a set of intervals to time
* Repeat interval sets _n_ times, or indefinitely

### tmux-Aware Interface

In a regular terminal session, remaining time is displayed in the window title.

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rlue/i/master/timer/terminal.gif)

In a tmux session, remaining time is displayed in the status bar beside the session name.

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rlue/i/master/timer/tmux.gif)

Installation
------------

### macOS

via [Homebrew][hb]

```
$ brew install rlue/utils/timer
```

### Linux

#### Dependencies

* bc
* sox
* libsox-fmt-mp3

Download `timer` to a directory on your $PATH (_e.g._, `~/bin`, `~/.local/bin`, `/usr/local/bin`) and make it executable:

```sh
$ curl -o ~/bin/timer https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rlue/timer/master/bin/timer
$ chmod +x ~/bin/timer
```

Usage
-----

### Synopsis

```
$ timer [options] [minutes ...]

    -r rounds                        Repeat timer (n < 0 repeats forever)
    -d seconds                       Delay timer start
    -q                               Suppress command line output
    -h                               Display this message
    -v                               Display version information
```

Timer duration may be specified in fraction or decimal form; e.g., 90 seconds may be specified as `1.5` or `3/2`.

If multiple durations are specified, an alert will be triggered at the end of each interval.

### Examples

#### Simple timer (30m)

    $ timer 30

#### Meditation timer

From [Quora][qr]:

> Let’s say you meditate for 30 minutes. You can set the interval bell to ring
> after 5 minutes, so you can spend the first 5 minutes settling/relaxing
> yourself and your mind, and then begin the actual meditation practice when
> the interval bell rings.  

    $ timer 5 25

#### Pomodoro technique

From [Wikipedia][pm]:

> 1. Decide on the task to be done.
> 2. Set the pomodoro timer (traditionally to 25 minutes).
> 3. Work on the task until the timer rings.
> 4. After the timer rings, put a checkmark on a piece of paper.
> 5. If you have fewer than four checkmarks, take a short break (3–5 minutes), then go to step 2.
> 6. After four pomodoros, take a longer break (15–30 minutes), reset your checkmark count to zero, then go to step 1.

    $ timer 25 5 25 5 25 5 25 20

Or to repeat this 135-minute set twice in a row,

    $ timer -r2 25 5 25 5 25 5 25 20

### Troubleshooting

timer uses [sox](http://sox.sourceforge.net/) under the hood to chime the
bell. If you receive an error message that begins `play WARN`, it may mean
that sox has selected the wrong audio driver or sound card (“audio device”) to
play on.

When this happens, specifying the appropriate audio driver or device via an
environment variable should fix the problem:

    $ AUDIODRIVER=alsa timer 5

If this works, you can make this setting permanent either by defining a shell
alias

```sh
# ~/.bashrc

alias timer="AUDIODRIVER=alsa timer"
```

or exporting the environment variable globally.

```sh
# ~/.profile

export AUDIODRIVER=alsa
```

License
-------

© 2017 Ryan Lue. This project is licensed under the terms of the MIT license.

[hb]: https://brew.sh/
[pm]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pomodoro_Technique#Underlying_principles
[qr]: https://www.quora.com/How-should-one-use-a-meditation-timer-with-an-interval-bell/answer/Phil-Mak

Commit message:

improve integration with tmux, add notify-send.
Integrate via session environment variable TMUX_TIMER rather than by
changing session name. Also other changes such as notify-send after
completion.

README.md, after:

timer – a Pomodoro/Interval Timer 
==================================

**timer** is a command line interval timer written in Bash.

_NOTE/TODO: The README is out of date with this forked version._

### Features

* Calming, serene alert tone inspired by Buddhist meditation bells
* Set a simple countdown, or specify a set of intervals to time
* Repeat interval sets _n_ times, or indefinitely

### tmux-Aware Interface

In a regular terminal session, remaining time is displayed in the window title.

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rlue/i/master/timer/terminal.gif)

In a tmux session, remaining time is displayed in the status bar beside the session name.

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rlue/i/master/timer/tmux.gif)

Installation
------------

### macOS

via [Homebrew][hb]

```
$ brew install rlue/utils/timer
```

### Linux

#### Dependencies

* bc
* sox
* libsox-fmt-mp3

Download `timer` to a directory on your $PATH (_e.g._, `~/bin`, `~/.local/bin`, `/usr/local/bin`) and make it executable:

```sh
$ curl -o ~/bin/timer https://raw.githubusercontent.com/rlue/timer/master/bin/timer
$ chmod +x ~/bin/timer
```

Usage
-----

### Synopsis

```
$ timer [options] [minutes ...]

    -r rounds                        Repeat timer (n < 0 repeats forever)
    -d seconds                       Delay timer start
    -q                               Suppress command line output
    -h                               Display this message
    -v                               Display version information
```

Timer duration may be specified in fraction or decimal form; e.g., 90 seconds may be specified as `1.5` or `3/2`.

If multiple durations are specified, an alert will be triggered at the end of each interval.

### Examples

#### Simple timer (30m)

    $ timer 30

#### Meditation timer

From [Quora][qr]:

> Let’s say you meditate for 30 minutes. You can set the interval bell to ring
> after 5 minutes, so you can spend the first 5 minutes settling/relaxing
> yourself and your mind, and then begin the actual meditation practice when
> the interval bell rings.  

    $ timer 5 25

#### Pomodoro technique

From [Wikipedia][pm]:

> 1. Decide on the task to be done.
> 2. Set the pomodoro timer (traditionally to 25 minutes).
> 3. Work on the task until the timer rings.
> 4. After the timer rings, put a checkmark on a piece of paper.
> 5. If you have fewer than four checkmarks, take a short break (3–5 minutes), then go to step 2.
> 6. After four pomodoros, take a longer break (15–30 minutes), reset your checkmark count to zero, then go to step 1.

    $ timer 25 5 25 5 25 5 25 20

Or to repeat this 135-minute set twice in a row,

    $ timer -r2 25 5 25 5 25 5 25 20

### Troubleshooting

timer uses [sox](http://sox.sourceforge.net/) under the hood to chime the
bell. If you receive an error message that begins `play WARN`, it may mean
that sox has selected the wrong audio driver or sound card (“audio device”) to
play on.

When this happens, specifying the appropriate audio driver or device via an
environment variable should fix the problem:

    $ AUDIODRIVER=alsa timer 5

If this works, you can make this setting permanent either by defining a shell
alias

```sh
# ~/.bashrc

alias timer="AUDIODRIVER=alsa timer"
```

or exporting the environment variable globally.

```sh
# ~/.profile

export AUDIODRIVER=alsa
```

License
-------

© 2017 Ryan Lue. This project is licensed under the terms of the MIT license.

[hb]: https://brew.sh/
[pm]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pomodoro_Technique#Underlying_principles
[qr]: https://www.quora.com/How-should-one-use-a-meditation-timer-with-an-interval-bell/answer/Phil-Mak
